Development
===========

Submitting a bug report
-----------------------

Please report any bugs to the GitLab (internal) or GitHub_ (public)
issue trackers.  Your issue will be resolved more quickly if you are
able to provide a `minimal working example`_, including an example
concrete data file if applicable.

Contributing code
-----------------

1. Ensure an issue has been created for your new feature/bugfix on
   GitLab (internal) or GitHub_ (public).
2. If you are adding a new feature, create a stub (placeholder
   implementation) of the desired argument/function/class/etc.
3. Write a test for your new feature/bugfix and run it, ensuring
   that it fails on the current implementation::

      py.test tests/test_my_code.py

   NameErrors, ImportErrors, SyntaxErrors, etc. do not count (they indicate the
   API is wrong).
4. Implement your new feature/bugfix.
5. Run the test again, ensuring that it now passes.
6. Run all tests and style checks, ensuring that they pass::

       tox

   Optionally, run integration tests (you must have Redis_ server
   version 2.8 or later in your path; do ``redis-server --version``
   to check)::

       tox integration-tests

7. If you created a new module (file) or package (directory) in the library,
   please see "Adding new modules and packages" in the next section.
8. Push your changes to a feature branch on GitLab/GitHub (e.g., called
   ``n-issue-abbrev`` where ``n`` is the issue number and
   ``issue-abbrev`` is a very short abbreviation of the issue title)
   and ensure that the build passes.  The build is defined in
   ``.gitlab-ci.yml`` (``.travis.yml`` and ``appveyor.yml`` for public
   builds); tox is configured in ``tox.ini``.  The build
   includes unit tests, integration tests, and style checks and runs on
   Python 3.5 across multiple platforms; if it fails, please
   find the error in the build log, fix it, and try again.
9. Add a line to ``CHANGELOG`` under the current version-in-progress
   describing your changes simply and concisely.  Add yourself to ``AUTHORS``
   if you are not already listed.
10. If you've made multiple commits, please squash them and
    ``git push -f`` to the feature branch.
11. Create a merge/pull request for your feature branch into
    ``main``, referencing the GitLab/GitHub issue.


For maintainers
---------------

Adding new modules and packages
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If a new module or package is created, either by hand or in the
auto-generated code from Thrift, a small amount of additional
configuration must be performed.

In either case, the name of the package (if it is a package and not a
module) should be added to the ``packages`` parameter in ``setup.py``.
The name of the package or module should be added to the subpackage or
submodule list in ``docs/concrete.rst``, respectively.
A new ReStructuredText file should also be created under ``docs/`` for
the package or module; follow the conventions set by the other packages
and modules.

If the new module or package was written by hand, a guard should be
added to ``autodoc_process_docstring`` in ``docs/conf.py`` so that that
module or package is not ignored by the documentation parser.  If it is
a package, a guard should also be added to ``generate.bash`` so that
the corresponding directory is not deleted when the auto-generated code
is copied into ``concrete/`` from the Thrift build directory.

If a new package was generated by Thrift, a corresponding exclude
should be added to the flake8 configuration in ``setup.cfg`` and the
new package's ``ttypes`` module should be added to the star imports
in ``concrete/__init__.py``.  If a new module (not package) was
generated by thrift, no action is necessary.

Branches, versions, and releases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The main branch is kept stable at all times.  Before a commit is
pushed to main, it should be checked by CI on another branch.  The
recommended way of maintaining this is to do all work in feature
branches that are kept up-to-date with main and pushed to GitLab,
waiting for CI to finish before merging.

We use zest.releaser_ to manage versions, the ``CHANGELOG``, and
releases.  (Making a new release is a many-step process that requires
great care; doing so by hand is strongly discouraged.)
Using zest.releaser, stable versions are released to PyPI
and main is kept on a development version number (so that a stable
version number never represents more than one snapshot of the code).
To make a new release install zest.releaser
(``pip install zest.releaser``) and run ``fullrelease``.

Testing PyPI releases
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To test how changes to concrete-python will show up on PyPI (for
example, how the readme is rendered) you can use the PyPI testing
site.  To do so, set the following in ``~/.pypirc``::

    repository = https://testpypi.python.org/pypi

You will also need to create a testpypi user account and you may need
to request access to the ``concrete`` package on testpypi.

Testing documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The automated build checks for syntax errors in the documentation.
When a push is made to the GitHub repository the
`online documentation`_ is automatically re-generated.
You can run the automatic validation and generate the HTML
documentation locally by doing::

    tox -e docs

The generated HTML documentation is stored it in ``.tox/docs/tmp/html``
(relative to the top of your repository).  Open this file path in a
web browser to check how your changes will look when published online.

(Re)generating code from concrete
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Python code generated by the thrift compiler on the schema defined
in the concrete project is checked in to concrete-python manually after
applying necessary patches.  For *trivial* modifications to the schema
this process is automated by ``generate.bash``, which assumes concrete
has been cloned alongside concrete-python (in the same parent
directory)::

    bash generate.bash

After this succeeds, tests should be run and the changes should be
manually inspected (``git diff``) for sanity.  Note that this will not
delete previously-generated files that are no longer produced by
thrift (whose entries were removed from the schema).

**Note**: Often ``generate.bash`` is not sufficient: the patches (in
``patches/``) document where it (thrift) falls short on the
previously-compiled schema.  Additionally, if new packages
(namespaces) are added to the schema, they must be added to
``setup.py``, ``setup.cfg``, and ``concrete/__init__.py``.

If ``generate.bash`` throws an error, the
necessary changes should be performed manually and checked in to the
index, at which point the generated code should be removed from the
working tree, raw (unpatched) generated code should be generated, and
new patches should be produced and stored in ``patches/`` using
``git diff``.  See the arguments to ``generate.bash`` for generating
the unpatched code.



.. _`minimal working example`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimal_Working_Example
.. _GitHub: https://github.com/hltcoe/concrete-python
.. _Redis: http://redis.io
.. _zest.releaser: http://zestreleaser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/overview.html
.. _`online documentation`: http://concrete-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
